Okay,
this is the last layer and the most
difficult one.
This is where we build upon layer one and
layer two.
And then now are building the business
case and the financials for the scenarios.
So
So we've calculated Azure consumption for
the in-scope or the powered on virtual
machines,
and they've been least cost matched to
Azure VMs.
So we have that.
And now this is what the human business
analyst does.
This is where I need significant
refactoring to be considered for the
current code base for
A project in question.
On GitHub.
So the way the human starts about it is
we have this benchmark business case
template that we fill in. And there are.
There are a variety of,
it's a very complicated template where it
was reverse engineered to some extent,
so we might need to do that again in the
refactoring.
But some of the key tabs that the
business analyst does take a look at.
are the following. The client variables,
that's where we input the current
on-premise inventory,
because that is what develops the current
state scenario for the business case and
the total cost of ownership.
Of what is in place now,
if and if they did nothing,
this is their financial outlook. Now,
there are an awful lot of assumptions
that are built into this template here,
and this assumptions.
Tab is what we use. For the most part,
we leave this alone,
but you see a whole variety of
assumptions across categories,
such as servers and storage. Well,
starting from the top, we have the WAC,
which is the weighted average cost of
capital.
We have that set at 7%.
Hours in one year are the assumption
there, 8,760. And then energy assumptions,
you know, we do make,
but those can be derived from the
internet if need be by the application.
But then we have a variety of assumptions.
across categories of servers and storage.
So this is ratios of VCPUs to servers,
ratios of VCPU or VMs to physical server
ratios, VCPU to physical core ratios,
virtual memory of physical memory ratios,
etc.
And things like acquisition costs down to
a unit economic measure of a cost per
core, a cost per GB of memory,
a cost per GB of storage.
So those are the sorts of assumptions
that go into
calculating what the current state,
or we call status quo sometimes,
for the on-premise financials for a
customer scenario.
And those assumptions will also go into
even the future state, Azure migration,
scenario for accounting for retained
costs.
So whatever's left behind in their data
center in the event that it is not a full
data center exit.
A full data center exit will effectively
remove all of those on-premise cost
assumptions.
over time as the migration plan occurs.
And we have a couple of different high
order migration plan assumptions.
One is 12 months,
so basically ramping down from on-premise
execution of their workloads.
over the course of 12 months as
simultaneously they are ramping up on
their Azure footprint.
So during those 12 months,
there is this notion of dual run costs.
Not only are there still some costs on
premise that are ramping down,
but there are
new costs,
monthly costs in the form of Azure
consumption that are ramping up as they
migrate virtual machines over to Azure.
So that's dual run costs.
And we have to account for that as well
in the financials. Other categories,
network and fit out, licenses and support.
So
Support and maintenance for hardware,
for software licenses. Here,
we account for Windows Server,
SQL Server licenses, all editions,
as well as a virtualization license.
And VMware is a classic.
benchmark that we'll use for on-premise
virtualization software,
a cost per year per core.
And you see what's built in there right
now is $208 per year per core for
virtualization license.
And if it is in scope for this
Business case analysis,
things like backup software licenses and
disaster recovery software licenses are
accounted for here as well. In addition,
we see lease and power because it takes
money for the space.
to operate a data center,
and it also takes energy to run the data
center as well.
There are also bandwidth and telecom
chargers because the telecom charges
because the data center has to be
connected to the internet.
And then there's also the people costs,
right? And here it's IT, admin,
various assumptions here.
A high level one that we have is number
of virtual machines per physical servers
managed per a system administrator set to
1200.
So these assumptions can also be fed back
into the
the agent for refactoring also.
But let's get started on starting to
enter in some numbers here. So again,
this is the business analyst that is
doing the number entry.
So some of the assumptions here,
US dollar,
Local currency,
but we want to be able to support
multiple currencies,
at least we'll say the major country
currencies,
customer price levels for Windows Server,
SQL Server licenses,
the most aggressive being...
D as in David for the biggest discount,
even though the default is B in the model.
Are we exiting the entire data center or
not?
And is the data center exit proportional
or not?
or static,
meaning proportional that during the ramp
down of removing workloads from the data
center,
we will show benefits of cost reductions
over the course proportionally of that
ramp down period, or static,
basically leave it all the same until the
end of the migration period and then fall
off the cliff on the data center cost.
Hardware depreciation life,
five years is a typical standard or
benchmark. Hardware actual usage life,
five years. Again,
another typical benchmark.
expected future growth for on-premise,
again, for modeling purposes, 2% per year,
hardware renewal during migration ramp up.
We just have that as a 10% kind of rule
of thumb as a percentage of hardware left
on-premise. And yes,
we also do want to include the IT admin
productivity benefit.
in the business case.
So here is where the manual work happens
for the business analyst,
and we start plugging in numbers here.
Now this into the client variables.
Now this is,
it's time consuming sometimes,
and we have to go searching for it.
in the RV tools file that is the basis
for these counts.
In the business case application,
these numbers would have been garnered
already in the layer one data ingest and
analysis.
But we're doing it manually here.
So,
I'm going to narrate the various notes
that we use as guidance for the business
analyst for how to find and enter those
numbers. So, in this example here,
for the number of VMs,
we go to the VM info tab and we count.
the number of all the VMs,
and we don't know if it's column A or not.
It's wherever it might sit. So here,
and because this is the on-premise count,
we're including all the hardware,
not just
the powered on VMs,
so powered on and powered off.
So right now, I count 2,831,
not including the header,
so I'll plug in 2,831.
And then for the number of physical
servers, excluding the VM hosts,
in this example,
we're just going to say 0 because all we
have is the RV Tools file.
There might be examples where there are
physical servers.
that are not part of the virtualized
environment.
They could be bare metal servers for high
performance computing or running SAP
databases or other reasons to have
physical bare metal servers there.
And okay,
now another calculation that we'll do
here,
even though this Excel spreadsheet does
an automated calculation,
we actually want to do an actual count
because we have, in this example,
we do have a vHost tab.
Now, otherwise,
the number of physical servers,
which include the VM host,
have an assumption here,
which goes back to basically a
calculation where it's...
the number of VMs divided by the
benchmark assumptions K11 field and this
and it is using it is using the benchmark
assumption of VM to physical server ratio.
Of 12,
now that's just a benchmark assumption,
but that's why,
because we have the so that would be a
fallback and and and it and it's so it's
it's that it's the number of VMs divided
by 12,
which is the VM to physical server
benchmark assumption ratio.
Plus,
if we had physical servers that are not
VM hosts, in this case, we don't here,
but we have the VHost tab. So,
if we go over here to the VHost tab and
we say, "Well,
what are the number of physical hosts?
" and we see 280.
not including the header.
So you see it's a little higher than what
the benchmark assumption calculation
would have yielded.
So, okay, so then next,
we're calculating allocated virtual CPUs.
And then here,
the guidance is to the business analyst
is go to the V-info tab and sum up the
number of CPUs in the V-info tab. So
So, we'll go over here,
so number of number of CPUs.
And that shows a sum of 548.
Oh no, no, no, no, the V info tab.
I was in the wrong tab.
So we got to go to the V info tab,
number of CPUs. Yes, there we go.
That's the right. So the sum of 15,330.
We're going to plug that in.
And same as the number of physical
servers,
what are the number of physical cores
that are not the VM hosts machine?
In this example, we don't have any,
but if we had physical bare metal servers
that were not part of the virtualization
environment,
we would want to account for that as well.
So then we continue going.
So now we have the estimated allocated
physical cores,
including the VM hosts this time,
very similar to the number of physical
servers above that included the VM hosts.
And that guidance note to the business
analyst is go to the vHost tab and sum up
the number of cores.
So now we go to the vHost tab,
and then we sum up the number of cores,
and it looks like 11,040.
Otherwise,
there seems to be also a benchmark
assumption formula in there to estimate
if we did not have the V host tab.
We have to be able to adapt to a
situation where if we don't have the V
host tab,
then we just have to make the best
possible and ideally as accurate as
possible of estimation
for values that we can't easily just
count in a tab. So here,
allocated virtual memory in gigabytes.
So this is the guidance is we're going to
the V info tab again and sum up the
memory column. Now remember,
the memory is an MIB,
and then we're going to
We're going to then divide that by 1,
024 to achieve gigabytes.
So we go to the V Infra tab,
and then we go here to memory.
And I take that, take that number, and...
And enter it in.
then divided by 1024.
And I have the amount of memory there.
Then allocated physical memory in
gigabytes, excluding the VM host,
very similar to what we saw before,
because we don't have any bare metal
servers. In this scenario, it's zero.
But now we want to include the physical
memory in gigabytes of the VM host itself.
So we go over to the V-host tab.
If we have it.
And we go to the memory column,
then the number memory column.
In V. Host.
And...
And we see, we see the number here. Now,
remember, that's an MIB, so...
I plug that in,
divided by 1024 for the guidance we
provide to the analyst,
and then we have that.
Oh, they got entered into the wrong place.
Okay,
so and then now we are counting up the
total storage. Now, here,
there are so different people have
different have different philosophies on
which storage amount they're going to use
here.
Even though the guidance the guidance
says V info V info tab sum up the in use
MIB, so it's the utilize,
and that's not a bad idea because at
least that gives us a better, a more,
well,
it does it does it gives us gives us a
it's cost effective,
even though we're building a business,
we're building this part of the this
portion of the business case.
is the on-premise portion.
But it doesn't overly inflate the storage
amounts. But let's look at both values.
So if we go to vinfo and then we're
looking for the storage amounts.
It looks like this.
This RV tools export does not, ohh,
because I'm looking in the wrong in the
wrong tab again, sorry,
so I was on I was on the V host tab,
that's the wrong tab,
so I'm looking at the V info tab for the
the in use, OK,
but we're gonna we're gonna get we're
gonna get both the numbers, so...
Um...
Okay.
So we have in this example here,
we have provisioned MIB,
which is basically the disk capacity
itself, and then in use MIB, well,
provisioned MIB at least provisioned by
the vCenter, by the VMware hypervisor.
And then in use MIB being what it's
actually using.
So we sometimes will look at both of
these figures and then decide,
do we want to stick with using the in use
MIB if there's a significant discrepancy
to provision MIB because they pay for
that.
that storage hardware.
So we'll just look here and then take the
provision MIB or capacity MIB,
depending on what it might be called.
And we'll just, you know, stash that away,
stash right away right now for
comparison's sake. Again,
this is the business analyst that's doing
this exercise.
And then we'll use the in use MIB.
And then we'll then we'll put that,
let's just let's just, you know,
put it put it down here,
or just for comparison's sake,
they're very close, so they're very close,
so you know, in this in this example,
because because the variance is so tight,
is so narrow,
I don't think it really matters.
Which one we use,
so let's just use the in the in use MIB
value,
and then and then we're and then we're
going to.
convert, because it's MIB,
we're going to convert that to gigabytes.
So 953.
67 is at least the guidance conversion
that we have for the analysts here.
And there we now have in gigabytes,
the amount of storage. So in this example,
we don't have
any backup or disaster recovery spelled
out, but we want to account for that.
So just be aware of that. So now, so here.
So in this example here, so it looks like,
well, that's a calculator field,
forget it. So, okay,
the next manual entry that we're making
is the average ratio of VCPU to cores.
The benchmark.
that is built into the model is 1.97.
That's a good rule of thumb. Here,
the guidance for the business analyst,
we say,
go to the vHost tab and grab the average
vCPUs per core from that column there.
Now, that's if we have a vHost tab.
If we don't have a vhost tab, then 1.
97 is a good enough benchmark to use.
So we'll go to vhost and then we'll
average the vCPUs per core.
Column, so...
So we look for the...
Here we go. So, here's the VCPUs per core,
and the average shows 1.48. So,
in this example, then 1.
48 is what the customer is running under
now. Now,
the next one is we want to we want to get.
..
to be able to calculate ESUs,
sometimes we'll get the operating system
being a part of the metadata in the RV
tools file. So here,
so we're looking for physical cores with
Windows Server operating system,
any addition.
So the guidance we have here is go to the
V info tab and then filter the operating
system to Windows Server and then take
the total number of CPUs and divide it by
the value in,
divide it by the average ratio of ECPU.
per core,
which we had calculated here as 1.48.
Otherwise, the benchmark would be 1.97.
So let's go to vInfo tab and then look
for operating system Windows Server.
So now the...
We usually have a couple of places to
find operating system.
So, in the V-info tab,
so we're looking for the operating system
Windows specifically,
and usually there are two columns,
hopefully.
Sometimes one column is not built out.
or filled in with metadata as well as the
other one. So I usually will default to,
if I have a column that says OS according
to the configuration file,
I will choose that one.
So sometimes we have OS according to the
VMware tools.
Sometimes that one is not,
or similarly named one,
is not built out as much and may have
blanks in there.
So we'll filter to all of the Windows.
And now it's Windows Server.
Sometimes we'll show Windows 10,
Windows 7, which are client devices,
and that one may throw a little bit of a
confusion or ambiguity to the ESU picture.
In in the in the business case, so.
So I like to just pick just the Windows
Server, so you know,
and it'll actually say Microsoft Windows
Server, hopefully, you know,
it has to at least say Windows Server,
whether it has Microsoft in it or not,
but all the additions.
If there are additions missing, you know,
then that's okay. You know,
sometimes we'll need to.
make assumptions, but here,
so I've selected all the Windows Server
and then it says go to the CPU column and
get that sum.
So we'll go to the CPU column.
number of CPUs and I have a sum of 12,405.
And then so,
so it's basically that divided by the
average ratio of eCPU per core value,
and here I'm just doing that cell
reference,
and then there it gives us the number of
physical cores with Windows Server.
The next one is physical,
so that calculation we just made there is
for demonstrating Azure hybrid use
benefits.
Bring your Windows Server license to
Azure and you can enjoy Azure hybrid use
benefits.
and cost reduction on those licenses that
you that you own, bringing them over.
So the next one is ESUs for supported
versions of the Windows Server editions.
So if we go if we go back over here to
the Windows Server.
And...
And you'll have to make the right
adaptations in the code for the
refactoring in terms of what are the
Windows Server editions that are under
ESU. As far as I know,
it's only Windows 2012.
At this time.
So this is not intended to be
prescriptive. At this time,
I'm only aware of Windows 2012 being
under ESU support.
So you'll have to know this when the
calculations are being done and codify
that in the refactoring.
So I have in this example,
Windows Server 2012 selected,
and then we go back over here to number
of CPUs, and then we enter that.
Enter that and again divide by the
average ratio of ECPU to core value.
And we have the number of physical cores
with versions supported under ESU still.
And now we make certain assumptions on
SQL Server licenses. We don't always see
the SQL Server metadata in the RV tools.
In fact, we rarely see it.
So we just make an assumption here that,
hey,
let's assume that 10% of the number of
physical cores with any Windows Server
version
on it also is running SQL Server licenses.
And then for the ESU supported one,
same thing,
10% of the physical cores with ESU
supported versions of Windows Server,
we assume are running SQL as well.
So that's it in terms of the client
variable entries.
And then now we go into to start filling
in the future state Azure scenario.
And so I'll basically take the ACR
numbers
That I that I calculated annual to to
create a basically a ten-year annual ACR
view,
and so so here we have for the for the
compute for the virtual machines,
and it's and I'm just using the example.
pay go right now.
You should be able to illustrate and
render all of the different pricing
offers and then show that on a dashboard.
So I'm just going to use the pay go right
now and then plug that in here.
Look that value in here as an annual.
As an annual value.
So, we, we, we,
we count for the the compute ACR and then
also for the storage ACR.
Annual.
So both of these numbers here are the
pay-as-you-go versions, pricing offers.
If we had a backup software,
then we would want to include backup as
well. That should be an option.
That should be an optional flag.
You know, HADR, same thing.
That should be an option. So,
so then basically now this is this is the
end for the human business analyst.
This is the end of the data input steps.
So,
so you see here these these these summary
graphs here.
And the summary tables. Now, one thing,
one thing also to show is,
is we we put in,
so this is Azure virtual machines going
to base going,
so on-premise virtual machines going to
Azure.
virtual machines or infrastructure as a
service.
So we make an assumption of a migration
cost,
because we do want to account for a
migration cost,
because that could end up requiring ESIF
and other Microsoft incentives to
subsidize, you know, for the customer.
And the assumption that we have
as a reference benchmark is 1500 US
dollars per VM. So you see that,
so you see that that's entered here in
this field here,
and then that goes into calculating the
overall migration cost for the scope of
VMs that we saw here, 2831.
And then the it looks like the ramp that
that is currently configured in here is
roughly A 24 month ramp to a two year
ramp.
That's why that's why you see migration
costs here over multiple years.
Now you know we can we can we can change.
We can change that just for illustration
purposes,
that we want to see all the VMs migrated
within one year, and then, you know,
then the migration cost is just spread
out over, you know,
this period of time here, so...
The.
The graphics basically show a 10-year or
five-year,
and we want to be able to have both,
cash flow analysis.
So these graphs are related to the cash
flow, and we want to show.
the ROI.
We want to show the net savings to be
very explicit what the savings are.
In this example here,
we see that over a 10-year period,
it's negative 4%. So that's actually
a savings over the 10 years,
but probably because of the migration
cost over just a five-year time horizon,
it's a positive 3%. So it's not a savings.
It's not an ROI in this example.
And, and,
and then we also we also need to
calculate.
other summary financials as well.
So net present value,
we need to have that. The payback period,
the payback period is basically how many
years will it take to pay back dual run
costs, migration costs,
And of course,
once they start realizing savings,
how long will it take to accumulate those
savings to make up for the dual run costs
and the migration costs that are built
into the business case here? Again,
this is retail.
We're not assuming any ESIF at this point.
So, so then, you know,
we want to also calculate the ROI,
the net present value over both the
five-year and the 10-year,
and we want a total cost of ownership.
We want the total cost of ownership shown
as
cash flow.
And that's what that's what this these
graphs tell us here. And that's basically,
you know, what these what these, you know,
tables do here as well over the 10 year,
or I could just take the first five years
as well.
But across all the major categories,
of CAPEX and OPEX, right?
We see server acquisition, major category,
storage and network acquisition,
and that includes depreciation,
hardware maintenance, backup and DR,
which we don't have that in this example
case, data center facilities,
virtualization software,
Windows and SQL Server licenses,
Windows and SQL Server ESU,
IT operations costs, basically admins,
and because this is the this is the
before state or the on-premise state,
there is no migration services cost that
shows up down here in the future states.
proposed Azure migration.
So we also classify CapEx and OpEx as
well.
If we're able to show,
visualize a waterfall chart to show the
benefits and the savings across the
various value and cost drivers,
that would be ideal as well from a
rendering perspective.
So this completes the entire application
workflow.
And, but in particular,
the layer 3 financial and business case
development.